# [Azure Fundamentals part 1: Describe core Azure concepts](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/az-900-describe-cloud-concepts/)

### [Introduction to Azure fundamentals](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/intro-to-azure-fundamentals/)
- what does Azure offer?
    - be ready for the future with Microsoft's constant innovation
    - build on your terms, supports all languages and frameworks
    - hybrid, on-premises and cloud
    - trust your cloud, security that's trusted by all
- what can I do with Azure?
    - teams often start with Azure by running their existing apps on Azure's VMs
    - create AI and machine learning solutions with speech, text, etc.
    - dynamically grow to accommodate data
- how does Azure work?
    - it does virtualization by using something called a hypervisor
        - the hypervisor runs multiple VMs on each server
        - one server in each rack runs a "fabric controller"
        - and each fabric controller is connected to the orchestrator
            - the orchestrator manages everything to do with the servers, including responding to user requests
            - requests are made through the Azure API, which can be accessed many ways, including through the Azure Portal
            - when a fabric controller gets a request from the orchestrator, it creates the VM, does something on the VM, whatever the user requested
- what is Azure Portal?
    - Azure Portal is the GUI version of the Azure API
    - you can build, manage and monitor your apps/deployments
    - you can create custom dashboards
- what is Azure Marketplace?
    - on Azure Marketplace you can install services to run on Azure
        - examples: all sorts of DBs, OS images, blockchain workbenches and dev kits
- Azure services categories
    - compute: VMs, deployed apps
    - networking: VPN, load-balancing
    - storage: disk, file, blob and archival storage types
    - mobile: cross-platform/native devices, send notifications, etc.
    - DBs: various DB services
    - web: Azure Maps for geo services, publish APIs, etc.
    - IoT: connect tons of different IoT devices, analyze sensor data
    - big data: open source cluster services help do analysis
    - AI: use your data to forcast
    - devops: automating software delivery
- subscription -> resource groups -> resource -> whatever that resource is (app, function, DB, etc.)

### [Discuss Azure fundamental concepts](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/fundamental-azure-concepts/)
- 

### [Describe core Azure architectural components](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/azure-architecture-fundamentals/)
